---
author: Jens-Christian Fischer
categories: ["musings"]
comments: true
date: 2010-11-04 16:19:06+00:00
layout: post
link: http://invisible.ch/2010/11/04/daily-log-2010-11-04/
slug: daily-log-2010-11-04
tags: ["blog"]
title: Daily Log, 2010-11-04
type: post
wordpress_id: 858
---

The monit saga from yesterday continued - and was solved. Somewhere deep in the monit documentation, it is stated that monit calls the start and stop programs with a very very minimal environment, and certainly not the full environment that for example the deploy user has.

So the following code will not work:
`
check process some_process with pidfile /path/to/process.pid
  start "/path/to/executable start" as deploy
  stop "/path/to/executable stop" as deploy
`

You can do the following to create an environment for the program:
`
check process some_process with pidfile /path/to/process.pid
  start "/usr/bin/env PATH=/usr/local/bin HOME=/home/deploy RAILS_ENV=production /path/to/executable start" as deploy
  stop "/usr/bin/env PATH=/usr/local/bin HOME=/home/deploy RAILS_ENV=production /path/to/executable stop" as deploy
`

Because this is tedious, it's probably better to write a small script that sets those values. Here's one I cooked up:

`
#!/bin/sh

export PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/usr/sbin:/usr/local/bin
export HOME=/home/deploy 
export RAILS_ENV=production

cd /srv/my_process
./bin/daemon $1
`

Then you can just call this program with either "start" or "stop" as a parameter.

In addition to that, I found a problem with kernel parameters. When we install Postgres 9 on our server, we actually compile it from source. Then we execute the following line in our chef recipe:

`
execute "sysctl -w kernel.shmmax=#{node[:postgresql9][:shmmax]}"
`

This works, but does not persist a reboot. It needs to be written to /etc/sysctl.conf too. A quick chef template took care of that...

In other news, my studies have started again, this time with "Object Oriented Design with UML". This module in my [Masters programme a the University of Liverpool](http://www.uol.ohecampus.com/index.php?mod=dcp&act=navigationindex&navigationid=79) seems to have more meat to it, than the last one (Programming the Web), which was a disaster with 6 year old course materials (frames! PHP4! SQL injection!). More reading planned for tonight. 
